**Introduction**
	Seeing something familiar from a new perspective is a fantastic way to reveal previously difficult-to-see insights. This is very much the case for what satellite imagery can teach us about our home, planet Earth. Many people are leveraging these opportunities, and in fact, there are “4,852 active artificial satellites orbiting the Earth as of January 1, 2022”. (https://www.statista.com/statistics/264472/number-of-satellites-in-orbit-by-operating-country/) I hoped to join the ranks of those that are able to distill answers and solutions from the wealth of satellite imagery available and find some answers to the question “Which areas of Colorado would be most valuable to protect based on biodiversity and pressure from human impact?”. 
	I chose those two factors as my criteria because highly biodiverse areas (habitats for vertebrates, freshwater invertebrates, pollinators, and vascular plants) could have the most benefit to a wide range of flora and fauna, and human activities such as urbanization, transportation, agriculture, etc could threaten these biodiverse habitats. Protecting these areas before irreversible harm such as species extinction or habitat destruction happens could help maintain ecological balance and keep Colorado the beautiful, wild place that so many residents and tourists cherish.
	In the course of doing literature review and background research, I found a great deal of useful information about the types of satellite imagery available, the potential applications of satellite imagery analysis, and tools for conducting analysis. In fact, it is quite a dense and sometimes confusing world to navigate. I encountered many obstacles in attempting to collect the right types of data needed for the specific analysis I wanted to do do, but also discovered unexpected tools and information to support my queries. Through this trial and error, I was able to build an unsupervised machine learning model, a k-Means clustering, to identify similarities in land types based on Sentinel-2 satellite images, as well as create an ArcGIS app for visualizing areas of imperiled biodiversity, park areas, and areas vulnerable to land change in Colorado.

**Methodology**
	The two most beginner-friendly and valuable tools I found out of the many that I tried out are sentinelhub’s EO Browser (https://www.sentinel-hub.com/explore/eobrowser/) and Esri’s ArcGIS. EO Browser is absolutely phenomenal for locating and downloading a wide variety of different satellite images in multiple different formats, and is completely free. There are robust documentation and tutorials, but it is also very intuitive to use. ArgGIS offers a free 21-day trial and has a wealth of tutorials and an interesting gallery of examples to browse through as well. This program can easily be used to implement different types of projects, visualizations, and analyses. 
	For the k-means clustering, I selected an area of Colorado that contained a diverse mix of urban, foothills, and mountainous territory (an area west of and including some of Denver) so that there would be a variety of landscape to classify. Using EO Browser, I downloaded 11 bands of Sentinel-2 images of my area of interest (AOI). I then stacked the data for these bands, standardized them, and performed Principle Component Analysis (PCA) to reduce the dimensionality before feeding them into the k-means model.
	Taking advantage of the features of ArgGIS, I also created a web app of a map of Colorado with layers depicting “Areas of Unprotected Biodiversity Importance of Imperiled Species in the United States”, designated Parks (Nat’l & State park or forest, regional, county, or local parks), and “Land Cover Vulnerability Change by 2050”. These map layers were available in ArcGIS’s Living Atlas, which currently has 6,433 available layers. It is then possible to visualize the intersections of areas that are unprotected areas of imperiled species, and that are vulnerable to land cover change.

**Results**
